.\" checkdirfile.1.  The checkdirfile man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2010, 2012 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH checkdirfile 1 "21 February 2012" "Version 0.8.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
checkdirfile \(em verify Dirfile database metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.ad l
.P
.B checkdirfile
.I DIRFILE
.P
.B checkdirfile
.RB "[\| " \-\-help " | " \-\-version " \|]"
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
Report errors in metadata of the dirfile(5) database specified by 
.IR DIRFILE .

Three separate checks are performed.  First, the format specification metadata
is scanned for syntax errors (see dirfile-format(5)) and Dirfile Standards
compliance.  Second, fields defined in the database are checked for
self-consistency.  Finally, the database is queried for its length.
.P
.B --help
.PD 0
.TP
.PD
.B --version
Show usage and version information and exit.

.SH AUTHOR

checkdirfile was written by D. V. Wiebe.

.SH REPORTING BUGS

Please send reports of bugs to getdata\-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

The GetData home page: <http://getdata.sourceforge.net/>

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright \(co 2010 D. V. Wiebe

checkdirfile is licenced under the GNU LPGL version 2.1 or later.

This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR dirfile-format (5)
