.\" dirfile_free_entry_strings.3.  The dirfile_free_entry_strings man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GetData is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with GetData; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH dirfile_free_entry_strings 3 "17 October 2008" "Version 0.4.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
dirfile_free_entry_strings \(em free strings in a GetData gd_entry_t object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "gd_entry_t *dirfile_free_entry_strings(gd_entry_t *" entry );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR dirfile_free_entry_strings ()
function frees the character strings found in the gd_entry_t object
.I entry
which were previously allocated by a call to
.BR get_entry (3).
If
.I entry
is NULL, this function does nothing.

If non-NULL,
.I entry
must point to a valid and properly initialised gd_entry_t object, such as that
returned by
.BR get_entry (3).
As well, the caller may construct a properly initialised gd_entry_t object by
first setting all bits to zero, then setting the field_type parameter to the
desired gd_entype_t symbol, and finally initialising only the members defined
for that type.  The results of calling this function are undefined if the
character strings pointed to by the string members of
.I entry
have not been allocated with
.BR malloc (3),
unless these pointer members are equal to NULL.

See 
.BR get_entry (3)
for a complete description of the gd_entry_t data type.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A call to 
.BR dirfile_free_entry_strings ()
always returns its input,
.IR entry .
.SH NOTES
This function is provided as a convenience only.  Callers may free strings
allocated by
.BR get_entry (3)
themselves by simply calling
.BR free (3)
on the appropriate members for the given entry type, if they prefer to do so.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR get_entry (3),
.BR free (3)
