.\" dirfile_protect.3.  The dirfile_protect man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GetData is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with GetData; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH dirfile_protect 3 "15 December 2008" "Version 0.5.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
dirfile_protect \(em modify the protection level of a dirfile fragment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "int dirfile_protect(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", int"
.IB protection_level ", int " fragment_index ", int " recode );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR dirfile_protect ()
function sets the advisory protection level of the format file fragment
specified by
.I fragment_index
to
.I protection_level
in the dirfile(5) database specified by
.IR dirfile .

The
.I protection_level
argument should be one of the following:
.TP
.BR GD_PROTECT_NONE
Indicating that the fragment should not be protected at all.
.TP
.B GD_PROTECT_FORMAT
Indicating that the fragment's metadata should be protected.
.TP
.B GD_PROTECT_DATA
Indicating that the fragment's binary data should be protected.
.TP
.B GD_PROTECT_ALL
Indicating that both the fragment's metadata and its binary data should be
protected.  This symbol is equivalent to the bitwise or of
.B GD_PROTECT_FORMAT
and
.BR GD_PROTECT_DATA .
.P
In addition to being simply a valid fragment index,
.I fragment_index
may also be the special value
.BR GD_ALL_FRAGMENTS ,
which indicates that the protection level of all fragments in the database
should be changed.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR dirfile_protect ()
returns zero.  On error, it returns -1 and sets the dirfile error to a non-zero
error value.  Possible error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_ACCMODE
The specified dirfile was opened read-only.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_INDEX
The supplied index was out of range.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_PROTECTION
The supplied protection level was invalid.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR get_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR get_error_string (3).
.SH NOTES
This is the only GetData function which ignores the (existing) protection
level of a format file fragment.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile_open (3),
.BR getdata (3),
.BR get_error (3),
.BR get_error_string (3),
.BR get_protection (3),
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR dirfile-format (5)
