.\" dirfile_parser_callback.3.  The dirfile_parser_callback man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GetData is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with GetData; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH dirfile_parser_callback 3 "19 December 2008" "Version 0.5.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
dirfile_parser_callback \(em set the syntax error callback handler for a dirfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "void dirfile_parser_callback(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "int (*" sehandler ")(const DIRFILE*, int, char*));
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR dirfile_parser_callback ()
sets the syntax error callback function of the DIRFILE object
.I dirfile
to
.IR sehandler ,
discarding any signal handler which was previously registered for this DIRFILE.
If
.I sehandler
is NULL, the existing handler will be removed and the default behaviour (abort
on error) restored.  See
.BR dirfile_cbopen (3)
for a discussion on the requirements for the syntax handler.

Since parsing of an existing format file occurs when the DIRFILE object is
created, before this function can be called, this function is only useful to
modify set or modify a callback function before calling
.BR dirfile_include (3),
which will invoke the callback function if syntax errors are found in the
included fragment.

This function always succeeds, and has no return value.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile_cbopen (3),
.BR dirfile_include (3),
.BR dirfile (5)
