.\" dirfile_reference.3.  The dirfile_reference man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GetData is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with GetData; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH dirfile_reference 3 "29 November 2008" "Version 0.5.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
dirfile_reference \(em retrieve or set the reference field for a dirfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "const char *dirfile_reference(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char"
.BI * field_code );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR dirfile_reference ()
function sets or retrieves the reference field (see 
.BR dirfile (5))
associated with the dirfile specified by
.IR dirfile .
If the
.I field_code
parameter is non-NULL, the reference field for the dirfile will be set to the
field specified.  If
.I field_code
is NULL, the reference field is not modified.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR dirfile_reference ()
returns the field code of the dirfile's reference field, which will be
.IR field_code ,
if
.I field_code
is non-NULL.   If no
.B RAW
fields are defined in the dirfile,
.BR dirfile_reference ()
will return NULL, without raising an error.  On error, NULL is returned and the
dirfile error is set to a non-zero error value.  Possible error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_ACCMODE
The specified dirfile was opened read-only.
.TP
.B GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.I field_code
was not found.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_FIELD_TYPE
The field specified by
.I field_code
was not a
.B RAW
field.
.TP
.B GD_E_PROTECTED
The metadata of the primary format file fragment (the file named
.I format
in the root dirfile directory) was protected from change.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR get_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR get_error_string (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile_metaflush (3),
.BR dirfile_open (3),
.BR get_error (3),
.BR get_error_string (3),
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR dirfile-format (5)
