.\" gd_alter_spec.3.  The gd_alter_spec man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2010, 2011, 2014, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_alter_spec 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_alter_spec, gd_malter_spec \(em modify a field in a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_alter_spec(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" line ,
.BI "int " recode );
.HP
.BI "int gd_malter_spec(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" line ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", int " recode );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_alter_spec
function modifies the field described by the field specification line in
.ARG line
to the dirfile specified by
.ARG dirfile .
The
.FN gd_malter_spec
function behaves similarly, but modifies the metafield under the field
indicated by the field code
.ARG parent .
Field specification lines are described in detail in
dirfile-format(5).

The name of the field to be modified, which must already exist, will be
obtained from the field specification line.  When adding a metafield, 
.ARG line
should only contain a field specification, and not a
.B /META
directive.

If the modified field is of type
.B RAW
and the
.ARG recode
argument is non-zero, the binary file associated with the field will be
converted for changes in data type and samples-per-frame.  In this case,
the field's I/O pointer will be reset to the beginning-of-frame.  If
.ARG recode
is zero, no binary file conversion will take place.

If the modified field is of type
.B LINTERP
and the
.ARG recode
argument is non-zero, the look-up table file will be moved if
.ARG line
specifies a different path, overwriting an existing file with the new
pathname, if present.  If the field specified by
.ARG field_code
is of type other than
.B RAW
or
.BR LINTERP ,
the
.ARG recode
argument is ignored.

Passing these functions a directive line instead of a field specification line
will result in a syntax error.  These functions never call the registered
parser callback function, even if
.ARG line 
contains a syntax error.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.FN gd_alter_spec
and
.FN gd_malter_spec
return zero.  On error, it returns a negative-valued error code.  Possible error
codes are:
.DD GD_E_ACCMODE
The specified dirfile was opened read-only.
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified in
.ARG line
was not found, or the
.ARG parent
field code was not found.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_FORMAT
A syntax error was encountered in
.ARG line .
.DD GD_E_IO
An I/O error occurred while translating the binary file associated with a
modified
.B RAW
field, or an I/O error occurred while attempting to rename a
.B LINTERP
table file.
.DD GD_E_LINE_TOO_LONG
The supplied
.ARG line
was longer than the parser was able to deal with.  Line lengths are limited by
the storage size of
.BR size_t .
.DD GD_E_PROTECTED
The metadata of the fragment was protected from change.  Or, a request to
translate the binary file associated with a
.B RAW
field was attempted, but the data of the fragment was protected.
.DD GD_E_UNKNOWN_ENCODING
The encoding scheme of the indicated format specification fragment is not known
to the library.  As a result, the library was unable to translate the binary
file be associated with a modified
.B RAW
field.
.DD GD_E_UNSUPPORTED
The encoding scheme of the indicated format specification fragment does not
support translating the empty binary file associated with a modified
.B RAW
field.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The functions
.FN dirfile_alter_spec
and
.FN dirfile_malter_spec
appeared in GetData-0.5.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, these functions were renamed to
.FN gd_alter_spec
and
.FN gd_malter_spec.

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from these functions changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
Any of the
.BR gd_alter_ <entry-type>
functions (e.g.,
.F3 gd_alter_bit ),
.F3 gd_alter_spec ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_metaflush ,
.F3 gd_open ,
dirfile-format(5)
