.\" gd_alias_target.3.  The gd_alias_target man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_alias_target 3 "1 January 2012" "Version 0.8.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
gd_alias_target \(em return the target of an alias defined in a dirfile database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "const char *gd_alias_target(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" alias_name
.B );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR gd_alias_target ()
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I dirfile
and returns the target field code of the alias specified by
.IR alias_name .

The
.I dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.BR gd_open (3).

Note: the target may itself be the an alias, which will have its own target.  To
obtain the canonical name of the field ultimately referenced by
.IR alias_name ,
pass it to
.BR gd_entry (3)
and inspect the
.I field
member of the gd_entry_t structure returned.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR gd_alias_target ()
returns a pointer to a read-only character string containing the name of the
target of the specified alias.  On error,
.BR gd_alias_target ()
returns NULL and sets the dirfile error a non-zero error value.  Possible error
values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_BAD_CODE
The name
.I alias_name
was not found in the dirfile.
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_FIELD_TYPE
The entry specified by
.I alias_name
was not an alias.
.PP
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR gd_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR gd_error_string (3).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gd_aliases (3),
.BR gd_entry (3),
.BR gd_open (3),
.BR dirfile (5)
