.\" gd_alter_entry.3.  The gd_alter_entry man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2016, 2024 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_alter_entry 3 "2 October 2024" "Version 0.11.1" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_alter_entry \(em modify the metadata of a Dirfile field

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_alter_entry(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_code ,
.BI "const gd_entry_t *" entry ", int " recode );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_alter_entry
function modifies the field specified by 
.ARG field_code
in the dirfile specified by
.ARG dirfile
to correspond to the new parameters specified by
.ARG entry .
In addition to specifying a regular field,
.ARG field_code
may also refer to a metafield by specifying it using its full (slashed) field
code.  However,
.ARG field_code
should never contain a representation suffix.

The form of
.ARG entry
is described in detail in the
.F3 get_entry
man page.  The
.SPM entry field
and
.SPM entry fragment_index
members are ignored by this function and need not be initialised.  All other
members appropriate to the field type of 
.ARG field_code
should be initialised, except as noted below.  To change the fragment index of a
field, use
.F3 gd_move .
To change the name of a field, use
.F3 gd_rename .

The only flags in the
.SPM entry flags
member which are honoured are
.BR GD_EN_HIDDEN ,
which should be set or cleared to set the hiddenness of the entry (see
.F3 gd_hidden ),
and
.BR GD_EN_COMPSCAL ,
which indicates whether scalar parameters are initialised from the complex
valued or purely real member, which both are present
.RB ( LINCOM ,
.BR POLYNOM ,
.BR RECIP ).

If
.ARG field_code
specifies a
.B RAW
field and the
.ARG recode
argument is non-zero, the binary file associated with the field will be
converted for changes in data type and samples-per-frame.  In this case,
the field's I/O pointer will be reset to the beginning-of-field.  If
.ARG recode
is zero, no binary file conversion will take place.

If
.ARG field_code
specifies a
.B LINTERP
field and the
.ARG recode
argument is non-zero, the look-up table file will be moved if
.SPM entry table
specifies a different path.  If a file with the new pathname already exists, it
will be overwritten.  If the field specified by
.ARG field_code
is of type other than
.B RAW
or
.BR LINTERP ,
the
.ARG recode
argument is ignored.

If
.ARG field_code
specified a
.B LINCOM
or
.B POLYNOM
field, the value of
.SPM entry comp_scal
indicates whether the purely real scalar lists
.RI ( entry -> a ", or " entry -> b " and " entry -> m )
or the complex valued lists
.RI ( entry -> ca ", or " entry -> cb " and " entry -> cm )
will be used.  The unused counterparts need not be initialised.

The
.SPM entry field_type
member must correspond to the field type of
.ARG field_code .
This interface cannot be used to change the type of a given field.  To do so,
delete the old field first with
.F3 gd_delete ,
and then create a new field of the desired type with
.F3 gd_add .

Some entry members have special values which indicate no change should be
made to the member.  These special values are:
.DD NULL\fR:
any of the string members;
.DD 0\fR:
.IR spf ", " n_fields ", " numbits ", " cdividend ", " dividend ", or " array_len ;
.DD -1\fR:
.IR bitnum " or " period ;
.DD GD_NULL\fR:
.IR data_type " or " const_type ;
.DD GD_WINDOP_UNK\fR:
.IR windop .
.PP
All
.SPM entry scalar
elements relevant for the given field type must be initialised to one of the
following values:
.IP \(bu 4
a pointer to a field code indicating a new scalar field to be used for the
corresponding field parameter.  If the parameter was previously a literal
number, it will be replaced by the specified field code.  If the parameter was
previously a field code, the new field code will replace the old one.  If the
field code specifies a
.B CARRAY
field, the corresponding
.SPM entry scalar_ind
element should also be set.
.IP \(bu 4
a pointer to the empty string ("").  In this case, no change is made to the
field code for the corresponding field parameter: if one already existed, it is
kept, otherwise the corresponding literal numerical parameter is used.  If the
value of the corresponding numerical
.ARG entry
member is the special value listed above indicating no change, no change is
made to the field parameter at all.
.B NB:
In this case, GetData also ignores the corresponding
.SPM entry scalar_ind
element, even if it differs from the current value.  To change a
.ARG scalar_ind
element without changing the corresponding
.ARG scalar ,
set that
.ARG scalar
element to its current value (at which point GetData operates as per the
previous bullet).
.IP \(bu 4
the NULL pointer.  If the corresponding field parameter was previously a field
code, the field code will be deleted and a literal number used instead.  In the
special case when a scalar element is NULL and the corresponding numerical
.ARG entry
member contains a special value indicating no change listed above, GetData will
de-reference the previous field code value and convert it into a literal number
before removing the field code from the entry.
.PP
If this function is used to increase the length of a
.B CARRAY
field, the added elements will be uninitialised.  Use
.F3 gd_put_carray_slice
or equivalent to initialise them.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.FN gd_alter_entry
return zero.   On error, a negative-valued error code is returned.  Possible
error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ACCMODE
The specified dirfile was opened read-only.
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.ARG field_code
was not found or a supplied field code did not contain the appropriate prefix
or suffix.  This error may also result from attempting to dereference a scalar
field code which indicates a non-existent field.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_ENTRY
One or more of the parameters specified in
.ARG entry
was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_FIELD_TYPE
The
.SPM entry field_type
parameter did not correspond to the type of the field specified by
.ARG field_code ,
or an attempt was made to modify the immutable
.I INDEX
field.  This error may also result from attempting to dereference a scalar
field code which does not indicate a
.B CONST
or
.B CARRAY
field.
.DD GD_E_BAD_TYPE
The
.SPM entry data_type
parameter provided with a
.BR RAW
entry, or the
.SPM entry const_type
parameter provided with a
.BR CONST
or
.BR CARRAY
entry, was invalid.
.DD GD_E_IO
An I/O error occurred while translating the binary file associated with a
modified
.B RAW
field, or an I/O error occurred while attempting to rename a
.B LINTERP
table file.
.DD GD_E_PROTECTED
The metadata of the fragment was protected from change.  Or, a request to
translate the binary file associated with a
.B RAW
field was attempted, but the data of the fragment was protected.
.DD GD_E_UNKNOWN_ENCODING
The encoding scheme of the indicated format specification fragment is not known
to the library.  As a result, the library was unable to translate the binary
file be associated with a modified
.B RAW
field.
.DD GD_E_UNSUPPORTED
The encoding scheme of the indicated format specification fragment does not
support translating the binary file associated with a modified
.B RAW
field.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The function
.FN dirfile_alter_entry
appeared in GetData-0.5.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_alter_entry .

In GetData-0.8.0, the first version supporting fragment affixes, this function
would apply the destination fragment's affixes to the supplied
.SC
.SPM entry field
.EC
name.  In GetData-0.8.1, this changed:
.FN gd_alter_entry
now assumes
.SC
.SPM entry field
.EC
contains the full field name, including any necessary affixes.

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return changed from -1 to a negative-valued
error code.

See
.F3 gd_entry
for the history of the
.B gd_entry_t
structure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_alter_bit ,
.F3 gd_alter_carray ,
.F3 gd_alter_const ,
.F3 gd_alter_divide ,
.F3 gd_alter_lincom ,
.F3 gd_alter_linterp ,
.F3 gd_alter_multiply ,
.F3 gd_alter_phase ,
.F3 gd_alter_polynom ,
.F3 gd_alter_raw ,
.F3 gd_alter_recip ,
.F3 gd_alter_spec ,
.F3 gd_delete ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_hidden ,
.F3 gd_malter_spec ,
.F3 gd_metaflush ,
.F3 gd_move ,
.F3 gd_open ,
.F3 gd_put_carray_slice ,
.F3 gd_rename ,
dirfile-format(5)
