.\" gd_add_bit.3.  The gd_add_bit man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_add_bit 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_add_bit, gd_add_carray gd_add_clincom, gd_add_const, gd_add_cpolynom,
gd_add_crecip, gd_add_divide, gd_add_indir, gd_add_lincom, gd_add_linterp,
gd_add_multiply, gd_add_phase, gd_add_polynom, gd_add_raw, gd_add_recip,
gd_add_sarray, gd_add_sbit, gd_add_sindir, gd_add_string
\(em add a field to a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_bit(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", int " bitnum ", int " numbits ,
.BI "int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_carray(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "gd_type_t " const_type ", size_t " array_len ", gd_type_t " data_type ,
.BI "void *" value ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_clincom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "int " n_fields ", const char **" in_fields ", const double complex *" cm ,
.BI "const double complex *" cb ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_const(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "gd_type_t " const_type ", gd_type_t " data_type ", void *" value ,
.BI "int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_cpolynom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "int " poly_ord ", const char *" in_fields ", const double complex *" ca ,
.BI "int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_crecip(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", double complex " cdividend ,
.BI "int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_divide(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field1 ", const char *" in_field2 ,
.BI "int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_indir(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" index_field ", const char *" carray_field ,
.BI "int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_lincom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "int " n_fields ", const char **" in_fields ", const double *" m ,
.BI "const double *" b ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_linterp(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", const char *" table ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_mplex(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", const char *" count_field ,
.BI "int " count_val ", int " period ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_multiply(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field1 ", const char *" in_field2 ,
.BI "int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_phase(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", gd_int64_t " shift ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_polynom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "int " poly_ord ", const char *" in_fields ", const double *" a ,
.BI int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_raw(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "gd_type_t " data_type ", unsigned int " spf ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_recip(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", double " dividend ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_sarray(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "size_t " array_len ", const char **" values ",int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_sbit(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", int " bitnum ", int " numbits ,
.BI "int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_sindir(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" index_field ", const char *" sarray_field ,
.BI "int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_string(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" value ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_window(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", const char *" check_field ", gd_windop_t"
.IB windop ", gd_triplet_t " threshold ", int " fragment_index );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions provide alternatives to using the
.F3 gd_add
or
.F3 gd_add_spec
functions to add a new field of the indicated type to the dirfile specified by
.ARG dirfile .
.PP
In all of these calls,
.ARG field_name
indicates the name of the field to be added.  Further,
.ARG fragment_index
is the index of the format specification fragment into which the field should be
added.  (To convert a fragment index to its file name, see
.F3 gd_fragmentname .)
The meaning and allowed types of other arguments may be obtained from the
.F3 gd_entry
and dirfile-format(5) manual pages.

The
.FN gd_add_clincom
and
.FN gd_add_cpolynom
functions are identical to
.FN gd_add_lincom
and
.FN gd_add_polynom ,
except they take complex scalar parameters, instead of purely real values.

The
.FN gd_add_lincom
and
.FN gd_add_clincom
functions takes pointers to three arrays of length
.ARG n_fields
containing the input field names
.RI ( in_fields ),
the gain factors
.RI ( m " or " cm ),
and the offset terms
.RI ( b " or " cb ).
Similarly,
.FN gd_add_polynom
and
.FN gd_add_cpolynom
take an array of length
.ARG poly_ord
+ 1
containing the polynomial co-efficients
.RI ( a " or " ca ).

The
.FN gd_add_carray ,
.FN gd_add_const ,
.FN gd_add_sarray ,
and
.FN gd_add_string
functions add the field and set the value of the field to
.ARG value .
For
.FN gd_add_const
and
.FN gd_add_carray ,
the
.ARG const_type
argument specifies the storage type for the const, while
.ARG data_type
specifies the data type of the value pointed to by
.ARG value .
For
.nh
.FN gd_add_sarray ,
.hy
.ARG value
should be an array of
.ARG array_len
string pointers.

The
.B gd_int64_t
type is a signed 64-bit integer type.  The
.B gd_triplet_t
type is defined as:
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
.fam C
typedef union {
  gd_int64_t i;
  gd_uint64_t u;
  double r;
} gd_triplet_t;
.fam
.fi
.in
.PP
Which element of this
.B gd_triplet_t
union to set depends on the operator selected for the
.B WINDOW
field.  See
.F3 gd_entry
for details.
.PP
A metafield may be added to the dirfile either by calling these functions with
.ARG field_name
containing the fully formed
.RI """" <parent-field> / <meta-field> """"
field code, or else by using the corresponding
.BR gd_madd_ ...()
function (see
.F3 gd_madd_bit ,
&c.) When adding a metafield with these functions,
.I fragment_index
is ignored and GetData will add the new metafield to the same format
specification fragment in which the parent field is defined.  If the specified
parent field name is an alias, the canonical name of the field will be
substituted.

All fields added with this interface must contain literal parameters.  Fields
with scalar fields as parameters cannot be added with these functions.  Those
fields must be added with
.F3 gd_add
or
.F3 gd_add_spec .

See
.B NOTES
below for information on using
.FN gd_add_clincom ,
.FN gd_add_cpolynom ,
and
.FN gd_add_crecip
in the C89 GetData API.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, any of these functions returns zero.   On error, a negative-valued
error value is returned.  Possible error values are:
.DD GD_E_ACCMODE
The specified dirfile was opened read-only.
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The
.IR field_name
contained invalid characters; or it or an input field did not contain the
affected fragment's prefix or suffix.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_ENTRY
One or more of the field parameters specified was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_INDEX
The
.IR fragment_index
argument was out of range.
.DD GD_E_BAD_TYPE
The
.IR data_type " or " const_type
argument provided to
.FN gd_add_raw
or
.FN gd_add_const
was invalid.
.DD GD_E_DUPLICATE
The
.IR field_name
provided duplicated that of an already existing field.
.DD GD_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal error occurred in the library while trying to perform the task.
This indicates a bug in the library.  Please report the incident to the
GetData developers.
.DD GD_E_IO
.RB ( gd_add_raw ()
only)  An I/O error occurred while creating an empty binary file to be
associated with a newly added
.B RAW
field.
.DD GD_E_PROTECTED
The metadata of the fragment was protected from change.  Or, the creation of a
.B RAW
field was attempted and the data of the fragment was protected.
.DD GD_E_UNKNOWN_ENCODING
.RB ( gd_add_raw ()
only) The encoding scheme of the indicated format specification fragment is not
known to the library.  As a result, the library was unable to create an empty
binary file to be associated with a newly added
.B RAW
field.
.DD GD_E_UNSUPPORTED
.RB ( gd_add_raw ()
only) The encoding scheme of the indicated format specification fragment does
not support creating an empty binary file to be associated with a newly added
.B RAW
field.
.PP
The dirfile error may also be retrieved by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH NOTES
The C89 GetData API provides different prototypes for
.FN gd_add_clincom ,
.FN gd_add_cpolynom ,
and
.FN gd_add_crecip :
.PP
.SC
.B #define GD_C89_API
.br
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_clincom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "int " n_fields ", const char **" in_fields ", const double *" cm ,
.BI "const double *" cb ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_cpolynom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "int " poly_ord ", const char *" in_fields ", const double *" ca ,
.BI "int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_crecip(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", const double " cdividend\fR[2] ,
.BI "int " fragment_index );
.EC
.PP
In this case, the array pointers passed as
.IR cm ", " cb
or
.IR ca
should have twice as many (purely real) elements, consisting of alternating
real and imaginary parts for the complex data.  That is, for example,
.IR ca [0]
should be the real part of the first co-efficient,
.IR ca [1]
the imaginary part of the first co-efficient,
.IR ca [2]
the real part of the second co-efficient,
.IR ca [3]
the imaginary part of the second co-efficient, and so on.  Similarly, the
.I cdividend
parameter becomes a double precision array of length two.
.PP
For
.FN gd_add_clincom
and
.FN gd_add_cpolynom ,
these are simply different (but equivalent) declarations of the C99 function
entry point.  For
.FN gd_add_crecip ,
however, a different entry point is needed (since the
.I cdividend
parameter is passed by reference instead of by value).  In the interests of
portability, the C89 version of
.FN gd_add_crecip
is always available, and may be accessed as
.FN gd_add_crecip89 ,
with the C89 prototype, in both the C99 and C89 APIs.

.SH HISTORY
The functions
.FN dirfile_add_bit ,
.FN dirfile_add_const ,
.FN dirfile_add_lincom ,
.FN dirfile_add_linterp ,
.FN dirfile_add_multiply ,
.FN dirfile_add_phase ,
.FN dirfile_add_raw ,
and
.FN dirfile_add_string
appeared in GetData-0.4.0.

The functions
.FN dirfile_add_clincom ,
.FN dirfile_add_cpolynom ,
.FN dirfile_add_polynom ,
and
.FN dirfile_add_sbit
appeared in GetData-0.6.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, the functions were renamed to
.FN gd_add_bit ,
.FN gd_add_clincom ,
.FN gd_add_const ,
.FN gd_add_cpolynom ,
.FN gd_add_lincom ,
.FN gd_add_linterp ,
.FN gd_add_multiply ,
.FN gd_add_phase ,
.FN gd_add_polynom ,
.FN gd_add_raw ,
.FN gd_add_sbit ,
and
.FN gd_add_string .
The functions
.FN gd_add_carray ,
.FN gd_add_crecip ,
.FN gd_add_divide ,
and
.FN gd_add_recip
also appeared in this version.

In GetData-0.8.0, these functions first allowed adding metafields by providing
the full (slashed) field name.  The functions
.FN gd_add_mplex
and
.FN gd_add_window
also appeared in this version.

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from these functions changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.  The functions
.FN gd_add_indir ,
.FN gd_add_sarray ,
and
.FN gd_add_sindir
also appeared in this version.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_add ,
.F3 gd_add_spec ,
.F3 gd_entry ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
the corresponding
.BR gd_madd_ <entry-type>
functions (e.g.
.F3 gd_madd_bit ),
.F3 gd_metaflush ,
.F3 gd_open ,
dirfile-format(5)
