.\" gd_add_alias.3.  The gd_add_alias man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_add_alias 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_add_alias, gd_madd_alias \(em add a field to a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_add_alias(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" alias_name ,
.BI "const char *" target_code ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_alias(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" parent ,
.BI "const char *" alias_name ", const char *" target_code );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_add_alias
function adds the alias named
.ARG alias_name
pointing to
.ARG target_code
to the fragment indexed by
.ARG fragment_index
in the dirfile specified by
.ARG dirfile .
The
.FN gd_madd_alias
function behaves similarly, but adds the field as a meta-entry under the field
indicated by the field code
.ARG parent .

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.FN gd_add_alias
and
.FN gd_madd_alias
return zero.   On error, a negative-valued error code is returned.  Possible
error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ACCMODE
The specified dirfile was opened read-only.
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
Either the
.ARG alias_name
was invalid: containing an invalid character or lacking the containing
fragment's namespace or affixes, or else the
.ARG parent
field code was not found, or was already a metafield.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_INDEX
The
.ARG fragment_index
specified was out of range.
.DD GD_E_DUPLICATE
The
.ARG alias_name
parameter duplicated that of an already existing entry.
.DD GD_E_PROTECTED
The metadata of the fragment was protected from change.  Or, the creation of a
.B RAW
field was attempted and the data of the fragment was protected.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The functions
.FN gd_add_alias
and
.FN gd_madd_alias
appeared in GetData-0.8.0.

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from these functions changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_add ,
.F3 gd_alias_target ,
.F3 gd_entry ,
.F3 gd_madd ,
.F3 gd_metaflush ,
.F3 gd_open ,
dirfile-format(5)
