.\" gd_array_len.3.  The gd_array_len man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_array_len 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_array_len \(em returns the length of a CARRAY or SARRAY field in a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "size_t gd_array_len(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_code );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_array_len
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and calculates the length of the
.BR CARRAY ", " CONST ", " STRING ,
or
.B SARRAY
field called
.ARG field_code .
If
.ARG field_code
contains a valid representation suffix, it will be ignored.

The 
.ARG dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.F3 gd_open .

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_array_len
returns a positive integer indicating the array length of the field specified.
(The length of a
.B CONST
or a
.B STRING
field is always 1.) On error, it returns a negative-valued error code.  Possible
error codes are:
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.ARG field_code
was not found in the database.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_FIELD_TYPE
The field specified by
.ARG field_code
was not of one of the field types listed above.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN gd_carray_len
function appeared in GetData-0.7.0.  It was restricted to
.B CONST
and
.B CARRAY
entries.

In GetData-0.9.0, this function was renamed to
.BR gd_array_len ,
and
.B STRING
entries were now valid for this function.

Before GetData-0.10.0, this function could also fail with the error code
.BR GD_E_ALLOC .

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from this function changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
dirfile(5),
.F3 gd_open ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string
