.\" gd_carrays.3.  The gd_carrays man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2010, 2011, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_carrays 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_carrays, gd_mcarrays \(em retrieve a list of CARRAY values from a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "const gd_carray_t *gd_carrays(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", gd_type_t
.IB return_type );
.HP
.BI "const gd_carray_t *gd_mcarrays(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char"
.BI * parent ", gd_type_t " return_type );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_carrays
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and generates a read-only list of values of the all top-level
.B CARRAY
fields defined in the database, after type conversion to the data type
specified by
.ARG return_type .
For a list of valid symbols to use for
.ARG return_type ,
see the
.F3 gd_get_carray
manual page.  

The
.FN gd_mcarrays
function behaves similarly, but creates a list of values of
.B CARRAY
subfields under the parent field
.ARG parent .

The 
.ARG dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.F3 gd_open .

A corresponding list of names for these fields may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_field_list_by_type
or
.F3 gd_mfield_list_by_type .

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_carrays
and
.F3 gd_mcarrays
return a pointer to an array of
.B gd_carray_t
objects containing the values of all the CARRAYs defined in the dirfile
database.  The
.B gd_carray_t
structure is defined as:
.PP
.RS
.SC
.nf
typedef struct {
  size_t       n;              /* array_len */
  void        *d;              /* CARRAY data */
} gd_carray_t;
.fi
.EC
.RE
.PP
where
.ARG n
specifies the length of the
.B CARRAY
data, and
.ARG d
is an array of the data values themselves. If
.ARG return_type
was
.BR GD_NULL ,
.ARG d
will be NULL.  Otherwise, the caller should cast the
.B void
pointer to a type appropriate for the
.ARG return_type
specified.  The list is terminated by an end-of-list marker consisting of a
.B gd_carray_t
item with
.ARG n
set to zero.

If no CARRAYs are defined in the database, a list containing only the
end-of-list marker is returned.

The array returned will be de-allocated by a call to
.F3 gd_close
and should not be de-allocated by the caller.  The list returned should not be
assumed to be in any particular order, except that it is guaranteed to be in the
same order as the list of
.B CARRAY
fields returned by
.F3 gd_field_list_by_type
or
.F3 gd_mfield_list_by_type .
The number of values in the array can be obtained from a call to
.F3 gd_nfields_by_type
or
.F3 gd_nmfields_by_type .

The caller may not modify any values in the array, nor the array itself.  Doing
so may cause database corruption.  The pointer returned is guaranteed to be
valid only until the function is called again, or until the dirfile's metadata
is modified (by adding, modifying or deleting an entry), or until the array is
de-allocated by a call to
.F3 gd_close
or
.F3 gd_discard .

On error,
.FN gd_carrays
returns NULL and stores a negative-valued error code in the
.B DIRFILE
object which may be retrieved by a subsequent call to
.F3 gd_error .
Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_TYPE
The
.ARG return_type
specified was invalid.
.DD GD_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal error occurred in the library while trying to perform the task.
This indicates a bug in the library.  Please report the incident to the
GetData developers.
.PP
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN gd_carrays
and
.FN gd_mcarrays
functions appeared in GetData-0.7.0.

.SH SEE ALSO
dirfile(5),
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_field_list_by_type ,
.F3 gd_get_carray ,
.F3 gd_mfield_list_by_type ,
.F3 gd_nfields_by_type
.F3 gd_nmfields_by_type
.F3 gd_open
