.\" gd_dirfilename.3.  The dirfilename man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2010, 2012, 2016 D.V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_dirfilename 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_dirfilename \(em retrieve the name of a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "const char *gd_dirfilename(DIRFILE *" dirfile );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_dirfilename
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and returns its name.  The name of a dirfile is an absolute pathname which
refers to the dirfile base directory.

The 
.ARG dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.F3 gd_open .

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_dirfilename
returns a pointer to a constant string containing the pathname of the dirfile.
On error, 
.FN gd_dirfilename
returns NULL and stores a negative-valued error code in the
.B DIRFILE
object which may be retrieved by a subsequent call to
.F3 gd_error .
Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.PP
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY

The function
.FN dirfilename
appeared in GetData-0.3.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_dirfilename .

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from this function changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_open ,
.BR path_resolution (7)
