.\" gd_dirfile_standards.3.  The gd_dirfile_standards man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2010, 2012, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_dirfile_standards 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_dirfile_standards \(em change or report the current Dirfile Standards Version
for a DirFile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_dirfile_standards(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", int " version );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_dirfile_standards
function sets the current Standards Version for the open dirfile
.ARG dirfile
to the value specified by
.ARG version ,
determining the syntax used to write metadata to disk for
.ARG dirfile .

The Standards Version of the loaded dirfile also affects the operation of
functions which add fields, such as
.F3 dirfile_add
or 
.F3 dirfile_add_spec ;
and functions which modify field metadata, such as
.F3 dirfile_alter_entry
or 
.F3 dirfile_alter_spec .
For specific behaviour see the manual page of the appropriate function.

The
.ARG version
parameter should be between zero and the value of the symbol
.BR GD_DIRFILE_STANDARDS_VERSION ,
which is the newest Standards Version understood by GetData, inclusive, or else
one of the following special symbols:
.DD GD_VERSION_EARLIEST
Specifies the current Standards Version should be set to the earliest version
that supports all the features of the loaded
.ARG dirfile ;
.DD GD_VERSION_CURRENT
Specifies that the current Standards Version should not be changed.  In this
case, this function simply reports the current Standards Version;
.DD GD_VERSION_LATEST
Specifies the current Standards Version should be set to the latest version
that supports all the features of the loaded
.ARG dirfile ;

If the loaded dirfile does not conform to the specified
.ARG version ,
this function fails, and the current Standards Version is unchanged.  If the
loaded dirfile conforms to no known Standards Version, this function will fail
regardless of the value of
.ARG version
(even if
.B GD_VERSION_CURRENT
is used).

The caller should not assume that the loaded dirfile conforms to every Standards
Version between the values reported by
.B GD_VERSION_EARLIEST
and
.BR GD_VERSION_LATEST .

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.FN gd_dirfile_standards
returns the current Standards Version of the loaded dirfile, after possibly
having been updated by the call.  This will be a non-negative integer between
zero and
.BR GD_DIRFILE_STANDARDS_VERSION
inclusive.  On error, a negative-valued error code is returned, and the current
Standards Version is not changed.  Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ARGUMENT
The loaded dirfile did not conform to the specified version.  Or the dirfile
conforms to no known Standards Version.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH NOTES
This function only changes the current Standards Version of the loaded dirfile.
It does not update the any format specification fragments on disk to conform to
the specified Standards Version.  To do that, use
.F3 gd_metaflush
or 
.F3 gd_rewrite_fragment .

.SH HISTORY
The function
.FN gd_dirfile_standards
appeared in GetData-0.7.0.

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from this function changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_open ,
.F3 gd_metaflush ,
.F3 gd_rewrite_fragment
