.\" gd_desync.3.  The gd_desync man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012, 2014, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_desync 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_desync \(em check for a change of metadata on disk

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_desync(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", unsigned int " flags );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_desync
function determines whether the metadata of the loaded
.ARG dirfile
has become desynchronised from the format specification fragments on disk, due
to a third party modifying the Dirfile metadata on disk after GetData opened
it.  If
.ARG dirfile
has become desynchronised, this function can, optionally, reload the dirfile.

The
.ARG flags
argument influences how the function works.  It should be zero or more of the
following flags, bitwise or'd together:
.DD GD_DESYNC_PATHCHECK
Ignore GetData's internal directory cache, and use the format fragments' full
path when checking for modifications.  This flag is of particular importance
when the
.ARG dirfilename
passed to
.F3 gd_cbopen ,
or directory paths used in included fragments, contain symbolic links: with this
flag, these symbolic links will be re-evaluated.  Without it, the target of
the symbolic links in effect when the dirfile was first opened will be
considered instead.
.DD GD_DESYNC_REOPEN
If this flag is specified, and
.FN gd_desync
detects desynchronisation, the Dirfile will be re-opened in place using the
exiting
.ARG dirfile
pointer.  In this case, upon a positive result from this function, the caller
must discard all cached information about the dirfile, even the assumption that
.ARG dirfile
has been successfully opened.

Re-opening the dirfile is equivalent to calling
.F3 gd_discard ,
and then
.F3 gd_cbopen
with the same arguments used when originally creating
.ARG dirfile ,
except that the
.ARG dirfile
pointer doesn't change its value.  As a result, this function may invoke the
registered parser callback function (see
.F3 gd_cbopen
and
.F3 gd_parser_callback ).

.SH RETURN VALUE
When successful, this function returns zero if the loaded dirfile has not
desynchronised, or one if it has.  On error, a negative-valued error code is
returned, regardless of desynchronisation.  Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_IO
An error occurred while trying to obtain the modification time of a fragment.
.PP
Additionally, if
.B GD_DESYNC_REOPEN
is used, this function may fail for any of the reasons listed in the
.F3 gd_discard
and
.F3 gd_cbopen
manual pages.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH LIMITATIONS
The current implementation uses file modification times as reported by
.BR stat (2)
to detect changes.  These times have a granularity of, at best, one second.  As
a result, desynchronisation will not be detected in the case when a fragment is
modified, then GetData reads it, then the fragment is modified again, all within
one second.  The caller may wish to perform its own monitoring using the
pathnames returned by
.F3 gd_fragmentname .
.PP
On systems lacking a POSIX.1-2008 conformant
.BR fstatat (2)
(q.v.), this function may always operate as if
.B GD_DESYNC_PATHCHECK
had been specified, regardless of the actual
.ARG flags .

.SH HISTORY
The function
.FN gd_desync
appeared in GetData-0.8.0.

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from this function changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fstatat (2),
.BR stat (2),
.F3 gd_cbopen ,
.F3 gd_discard ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_parser_callback
