.\" gd_delete.3.  The gd_delete man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2014, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_delete 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_delete \(em remove an entry from a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_delete(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_code ,
.BI "unsigned int " flags );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_delete
function attempts to delete the field or alias specified by
.ARG field_code
from the dirfile specified by
.ARG dirfile .
The
.ARG field_code
should not contain a representation suffix.

The
.ARG flags
argument influences how the deletion attempt occurs.  It may be zero, for the
default behaviour, or else one or more of the following flags, bitwise or'd
together:
.DD GD_DEL_DATA
If the field to be deleted is a
.B RAW
field, also delete the binary data file associated with it.  If
.ARG field_code
specified a
.B RAW
field and this flag is not specified, the field will still be deleted but the
binary file will be left untouched.
.DD GD_DEL_DEREF
If the field to be deleted is a
.B CONST
or
.B CARRAY
field which is used as a parameter in the specification of other fields, resolve
these other fields' dependence on the deleted field by replacing instances of
.ARG field_code
in their field specifications with the value of the scalar field.
.DD GD_DEL_FORCE
Delete the indicated entry, even if it is used in the specification of other
fields, either as a input for a derived vector field or as a scalar parameter in
a field specification, or if it has aliases pointing to it.
.DD GD_DEL_META
If the field to be deleted has metafields attached to it, attempt to delete
those, too.  If the field has metafields and this flag is not specified, the
call will fail with the
.B GD_E_DELETE
error.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On successful deletion, zero is returned.  On error, a negative-valued error
code is returned.  Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ACCMODE
The specified dirfile was opened read-only.
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.ARG field_code
was not found in the database.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_DELETE
The attempt to delete the field failed.  Either it is used in the specification
of other fields and
.B GD_DEL_FORCE
or
.B GD_DEL_DEREF
was not specified, or it has metafields and
.B GD_DEL_META
was not specified.
.DD GD_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal error occurred in the library while trying to perform the task.
This indicates a bug in the library.  Please report the incident to the
GetData developers.
.DD GD_E_IO
An error occurred while trying to close or delete the binary file associated
with a
.B RAW
field.
.DD GD_E_PROTECTED
The metadata of the fragment containing the field was protected from change.
Or, the deletion of the binary data file associated with a
.B RAW
field was attempted and the data of the fragment was protected.
.DD GD_E_UNKNOWN_ENCODING
The
.B GD_DEL_DATA
flag was given but the encoding scheme of the indicated format specification
fragment is not known to the library.  As a result, the library was unable to
delete the binary file associated with a
.B RAW
field.
.DD GD_E_UNSUPPORTED
The
.B GD_DEL_DATA
flag was given but the encoding scheme of the indicated format specification
fragment does not support deleting the binary file associated with a
.B RAW
field.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY

The function
.FN dirfile_delete
appeared in GetData-0.5.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_delete .

In all GetData-0.8.x releases, passing an alias name to this function would
delete the target of the alias.  To delete an alias itself, a separate function,
.FN gd_delete_alias
was available.

In GetData-0.9.0,
.FN gd_delete_alias
was removed.

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from this function changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_close ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_metaflush ,
.F3 gd_open
