.\" gd_endianness.3.  The gd_endianness man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2010, 2016 D.V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_endianness 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_endianness \(em report the byte sex of fields in a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "unsigned long gd_endianness(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", int " fragment_index );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_endianness
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and retrieves the byte sex of the fragment indexed by
.ARG fragment_index .
The byte sex of a fragment indicates the endianness of data files associated
with
.B RAW
fields defined in the specified fragment.  The endianness of a fragment
containing no
.B RAW
fields is not meaningful.

The
.ARG dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.F3 gd_open .

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_endianness
returns the byte sex of the specified fragment, which will be either
.nh
.B GD_BIG_ENDIAN
or
.BR GD_LITTLE_ENDIAN .
.hy
This will be bitwise-or'd with either
.B GD_ARM_ENDIAN 
or 
.BR GD_NOT_ARM_ENDIAN ,
indicating whether double-precision floating point data in this fragment are
stored in the old ARM middle-endian format.

On error, this function returns zero and stores a negative-valued error code in
the
.B DIRFILE
object which may be retrieved by a subsequent call to
.F3 gd_error .
Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_INDEX
The supplied index was out of range.
.PP
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN get_endianness
function appeared in GetData-0.5.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_endianness .
This version also added the
.B GD_ARM_ENDIAN 
and 
.BR GD_NOT_ARM_ENDIAN
flags.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_alter_endianness ,
.F3 gd_getdata ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_open ,
dirfile(5),
dirfile-format(5)
