.\" gd_encoding.3.  The gd_encoding man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_encoding 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_encoding \(em report the binary encoding of data in a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "unsigned long gd_encoding(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", int " fragment_index );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_encoding
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and returns the data encoding for the fragment indexed by
.ARG fragment_index .
The data encoding of a fragment indicate the encoding of data files associated
with
.B RAW
fields defined in the specified fragment.  The encoding of a fragment
containing no
.B RAW
fields is ignored.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_encoding
returns the binary encoding of the specified fragment, which will one of the
following symbols:
.IP
.SC
.BR GD_UNENCODED ,
.BR GD_BZIP2_ENCODED ,
.BR GD_FLAC_ENCODED ,
.BR GD_GZIP_ENCODED ,
.BR GD_LZMA_ENCODED ,
.BR GD_SIE_ENCODED ,
.BR GD_SLIM_ENCODED ,
.BR GD_TEXT_ENCODED ,
.BR GD_ZZIP_ENCODED ,
.BR GD_ZZSLIM_ENCODED ,
.BR GD_ENC_UNSUPPORTED .
.EC
.PP
If the encoding scheme specified in the dirfile
metadata is unknown to GetData,
.B GD_ENC_UNSUPPORTED
will be returned.  See
.F3 gd_open
and dirfile-encoding(5) for the meanings of the other symbols and details on the
supported encoding schemes.

On error, this function returns zero and stores a negative-valued error code in
the
.B DIRFILE
object which may be retrieved by a subsequent call to
.F3 gd_error .
Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_INDEX
The supplied index was out of range.
.PP
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN get_encoding
function appeared in GetData-0.5.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_encoding .

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_alter_encoding ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_getdata ,
.F3 gd_open ,
dirfile(5), dirfile-encoding(5)
