.\" gd_fragment_index.3.  The gd_fragment_index man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_fragment_index 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_fragment_index \(em retrieve the fragment containing a Dirfile field

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_fragment_index(const DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char"
.BI * entry_name );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_fragment_index
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and returns the index number of the fragment defining the field or alias
named
.ARG entry_name .

This is one of the few GetData functions which does not resolve aliases:
supplying the name of an alias as
.ARG entry_name
will return the index of the fragment containing the alias itself and not that
of its target.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_fragment_index
returns the requested fragment index, which is never negative.  On error,
.FN gd_fragment_index
returns a negative-valued error code.  Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The entry specified by
.ARG entry_name
was not found in the database.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN get_fragment_index
function appeared in GetData-0.5.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_fragment_index .

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from this function changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_open ,
.F3 gd_entry ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_fragmentname ,
.F3 gd_parent_fragment ,
dirfile(5)
