.\" gd_fragment_namespace.3.  The gd_fragment_namespace man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_fragment_namespace 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_fragment_namespace \(em report or change the root namespace of a fragment of
a dirfile database

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "const char *gd_fragment_namespace(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", int
.IB fragment_index ", char *" new_namespace );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_fragment_namespace
function can be used to update and/or query the root namespace of a fragment
in the dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile .

If
.ARG new_namespace
is NULL, then the current root namespace of the fragment indexed by
.ARG fragment_index
is returned.  If
.ARG new_namespace
is non-NULL, then the root namespace is first changed to the string provided
before being reported.  The new namespace may optionally contain a single,
trailing dot
.RB ( . ).
To remove an existing root namespace, pass a pointer to the empty string
.RB ( """""" )
as
.ARG new_namespace .

The root namespace of the root format file (the one indexed by
.ARG fragment_index =0)
may not be changed.  It is always the empty string.

The
.ARG dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.F3 gd_open .

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_fragment_namespace
returns a non-NULL pointer to a read-only string containing the current root
namespace of the fragment specified.  This will be a copy of the string
.ARG new_namespace ,
if that parameter was non-NULL.  If the fragment's root namespace is empty,
a pointer to the empty string
.RB ( """""" )
will be returned.

On error, this function returns NULL and sets the dirfile error to a non-zero
error value.  Possible
dirfile error values are:
.DD GD_E_ACCMODE
The dirfile was opened read-only.
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
A memory allocation error occurred.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The supplied
.ARG new_fragment
was not a valid namespace.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_INDEX
The supplied index was out of range.  This error will also be returned if an
attempt is made to change the root namespace of the root format file
.RI ( fragment_index
zero).
.DD GD_E_DUPLICATE
Attempting to change the root namespace resulted in a duplicated field
definition.
.DD GD_E_PROTECTED
The protection level of the specified fragment prohibits metadata changes.
.PP
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN gd_fragment_namespace
function appeared in GetData-0.10.0.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_alter_affixes ,
.F3 gd_include_ns ,
.F3 gd_open ,
dirfile(5),
dirfile-format(5)
