.\" gd_hide.3.  The gd_hidden man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012, 2013, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_hide 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_hide, gd_unhide \(em hide or unhide a Dirfile database entry

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_hide(const DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char"
.BI * entry_name );
.HP
.BI "int gd_unhide(const DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char"
.BI * entry_name );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_hide
function hides the field or alias called
.ARG entry_name
in the dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and indicates whether the field or alias called is hidden or not.  Similarly,
the
.FN gd_unhide
function unhides the specified entry.  An entry can also be hidden or unhidden
using
.F3 gd_alter_entry .

By default, a hidden entry does not appear in the lists returned by the
functions
.F3 gd_match_entries ,
.F3 gd_entry_list
.F3 gd_constants ,
or
.F3 gd_strings ,
including the special-case versions of
.F3 gd_entry_list
such as
.F3 gd_field_list .
These omissions are also reflected in the counts returned by the corresponding
field counting function
.F3 gd_nentries
and it's special-case versions
.RB ( gd_nfields (3),
&c.).

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_hide
and
.FN gd_unhide
return zero.  On error, they return a negative-valued error code.  Possible
error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ACCMODE
The specified dirfile was opened read-only.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.ARG field_code
was not found in the database.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_PROTECTED
The metadata of the affected format specification fragments was protected from
change.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN gd_hide
and
.FN gd_unhide
functions appeared in GetData-0.8.0.

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from these functions changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_alter_entry ,
.F3 gd_field_list ,
.F3 gd_hidden ,
.F3 gd_nfields ,
.F3 gd_open ,
dirfile(5)
