.\" gd_metaflush.3.  The gd_metaflush man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008, 2010 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_metaflush 3 "24 July 2010" "Version 0.7.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
gd_metaflush \(em write modified dirfile metadata to disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "int gd_metaflush(DIRFILE *" dirfile );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR gd_metaflush ()
function flushes all pending metadata changes in the dirfile specified by
.I dirfile 
to disk.  This is accomplished by re-writing the format specification fragments
containing modified metadata overwriting the existing files.  Format file
fragments which are unchanged are not touched.
.P
Metadata is written to disk using the current Standards Version as stored in the
.I dirfile
object.  See
.BR gd_dirfile_standards (3)
to change or report the current Standards Version.  If the dirfile metadata
conforms to no known Standards Version, a Standards non-compliant fragment will
be written.
.P
This function flushes only metadata.  To flush the field data as well, call
.BR gd_flush (3)
instead.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned and the dirfile error is
set to a non-zero error value.  Possible error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_ACCMODE
The supplied dirfile was opened in read-only mode.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.TP
.B GD_E_FLUSH
A temporary file could not be opened into which to write the modified metadata,
or renaming the temporary file over the original fragment failed.
.TP
.B GD_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal error occurred in the library while trying to perform the task.
This indicates a bug in the library.  Please report the incident to the
maintainer.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR gd_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR gd_error_string (3).
.SH BUGS
When writing metadata using Standards Version 4 or earlier, the reference field
may change, owing to the lack of a
.B /REFERENCE
directive.  A work-around is to upgrade to Standards Version 5 or later.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gd_open (3),
.BR gd_close (3),
.BR gd_dirfile_standards (3),
.BR gd_error (3),
.BR gd_error_string (3),
.BR gd_flush (3),
.BR gd_rewrite_fragment (3)
