.\" gd_madd_bit.3.  The gd_madd_bit man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_madd_bit 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_madd_bit, gd_madd_carray, gd_madd_clincom, gd_madd_const, gd_madd_cpolynom,
gd_madd_crecip, gd_madd_divide, gd_madd_indir, gd_madd_lincom, gd_madd_linterp,
gd_madd_multiply, gd_madd_phase, gd_madd_polynom, gd_madd_recip,
gd_madd_sarray, gd_madd_sbit, gd_madd_sindir, gd_madd_string
\(em add a field to a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_bit(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", int " bitnum ", int " numbits );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_carray(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "gd_type_t " const_type ", size_t " array_len ", gd_type_t " data_type ,
.BI "void *" value );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_clincom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" parent ,
.BI "const char *" field_name ", int " n_fields ", const char **" in_fields ,
.BI "const double complex *" cm ", const double complex *" cb );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_const(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "gd_type_t " const_type ", gd_type_t " data_type ", void *" value );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_cpolynom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" parent ,
.BI "const char *" field_name ", int " poly_ord ", const char *" in_field ,
.BI "const double complex *" ca );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_crecip(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" parent ,
.BI "const char *" field_name ", const char *" in_field ,
.BI "double complex " cdividend ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_divide(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI " const char *" in_field1 ", const char *" in_field2 );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_indir(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI " const char *" index_field ", const char *" carray_field );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_lincom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" parent ,
.BI "const char *" field_name ", int " n_fields ", const char **" in_fields ,
.BI "const double *" m ", const double *" b );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_linterp(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", const char *" table );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_mplex(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", const char *" count_field ,
.BI "int " count_val ", int " period );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_multiply(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI " const char *" in_field1 ", const char *" in_field2 );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_polynom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" parent ,
.BI "const char *" field_name ", int " poly_ord ", const char *" in_field ,
.BI "const double *" a );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_phase(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", gd_int64_t " shift );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_recip(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" parent ,
.BI "const char *" field_name ", const char *" in_field ,
.BI "double " dividend ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_sarray(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI size_t " array_len ", const char **" value );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_sbit(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", int " bitnum ", int " numbits );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_sindir(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI " const char *" index_field ", const char *" sarray_field );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_string(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" parent ,
.BI "const char *" field_name ", const char *" value );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_window(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", const char *" field_name ,
.BI "const char *" in_field ", const char *" check_field ", gd_windop_t"
.IB windop ", gd_triplet_t " threshold );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions add a new metafield of the indicated type under the parent field
given by
.ARG parent
to the dirfile specified by
.ARG dirfile .
.PP
In all of these calls,
.ARG field_name
indicates the name of the field to be added.  It should not be the full
.IB <parent-field> / <meta-field>
field code.  The meaning and valid types of other arguments may be obtained from
the
.F3 gd_entry
and
dirfile-format(5)
manual pages.

The
.FN gd_madd_clincom
and
.FN gd_madd_cpolynom
functions are identical to
.FN gd_madd_lincom
and
.FN gd_madd_polynom ,
except they take complex scalar parameters, instead of purely real values.

The
.FN gd_madd_lincom
and
.FN gd_madd_clincom
functions take pointers to three arrays of length
.ARG n_fields
containing the input field names
.RI ( in_fields ),
the gain factors
.RI ( m " or " cm ),
and the offset terms
.RI ( b " or " cb ).
Similarly,
.FN gd_madd_polynom
and
.FN gd_madd_cpolynom
take an array of length
.ARG poly_ord
+ 1
containing the polynomial co-efficients
.RI ( a " or " ca ).

The
.FN gd_madd_carray ,
.FN gd_madd_const ,
.FN gd_madd_sarray ,
and
.FN gd_madd_string ,
functions both add the field and set the value of the field to
.ARG value .
For
.FN gd_madd_const
and
.FN gd_madd_carray ,
the
.ARG const_type
argument specifies the storage type for the const, while
.ARG data_type
specifies the data type of the value pointed to by
.ARG value .
For
.FN gd_madd_sarray ,
.ARG value
should contain
.ARG array_len
string pointers.

The
.B gd_int64_t
type is a signed 64-bit integer type.  The
.B gd_triplet_t
type is defined as:
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
.fam C
typedef union {
  gd_int64_t i;
  gd_uint64_t u;
  double r;
} gd_triplet_t;
.fam
.fi
.in
.PP
Which element of this
.B gd_triplet_t
union to set depends on the operator selected for the
.B WINDOW
field.  See
.F3 gd_entry
for details.
.PP
All fields added with this interface must contain numerical parameters.  Fields
with scalar fields as parameters cannot be added with these functions.  Those
fields must be added with
.F3 gd_madd
or
.F3 gd_madd_spec .
See
.F3 gd_add_bit ,
&c. for an alternate way of adding metafields with explicit parameters.

See
.B NOTES
below for information on using
.BR gd_madd_clincom "(), " gd_madd_cpolynom (),
and 
.FN gd_madd_crecip
in the C89 GetData API.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, any of these functions returns zero.  On error, a negative-valued
error code is returned.  Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ACCMODE
The specified dirfile was opened read-only.
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The
.ARG field_name
argument contained invalid characters. Alternately, the
.ARG parent
field code was not found, or was already a metafield.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_ENTRY
One or more of the field parameters specified was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_TYPE
The
.ARG data_type
or
.ARG const_type
argument provided to
.FN gd_madd_const
or
.FN gd_madd_carray
was invalid.
.DD GD_E_DUPLICATE
The
.ARG field_name
provided duplicated that of an already existing field.
.DD GD_E_PROTECTED
The metadata of the fragment was protected from change.
.PP
The dirfile error may also be retrieved by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH NOTES
The C89 GetData API provides different prototypes for
.FN gd_madd_clincom ,\~ gd_madd_cpolynom (),
and
.FN gd_madd_crecip :
.PP
.SC
.B #define GD_C89_API
.br
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_clincom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" parent ,
.BI "const char *" field_name ", int " n_fields ", const char **" in_fields ,
.BI "const double *" cm ", const double *" cb );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_cpolynom(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" parent ,
.BI "const char *" field_name ", int " poly_ord ", const char *" in_field ,
.BI "const double *" ca );
.HP
.BI "int gd_madd_crecip(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" parent ,
.BI "const char *" field_name ", const char *" in_field ,
.BI "double " cdividend\fR[2] ", int " fragment_index );
.EC
.PP
In this case, the array pointers passed as
.ARG cm ,
.ARG cb
or
.ARG ca
should have twice as many (purely real) elements, consisting of alternating
real and imaginary parts for the complex data.  That is, for example,
.ARG ca [0]
should be the real part of the first co-efficient,
.ARG ca [1]
the imaginary part of the first co-efficient,
.ARG ca [2]
the real part of the second co-efficient,
.ARG ca [3]
the imaginary part of the second co-efficient, and so on.  Similarly, the
.ARG cdividend
parameter becomes a double precision array of length two.
.PP
For
.FN gd_madd_clincom
and
.FN gd_madd_cpolynom ,
these are simply different (but equivalent) declarations of the C99 function
entry point.  For
.FN gd_madd_crecip ,
however, a different entry point is needed (since the
.ARG cdividend
parameter is passed by reference instead of by value).  In the interests of
portability, the C89 version of
.FN gd_madd_crecip
is always available, and may be accessed as
.FN gd_madd_crecip89 ,
with the C89 prototype, in both the C99 and C89 APIs.

.SH HISTORY
The functions
.FN dirfile_madd_bit ,
.FN dirfile_madd_const ,
.FN dirfile_madd_lincom ,
.FN dirfile_madd_linterp ,
.FN dirfile_madd_multiply ,
.FN dirfile_madd_phase ,
and
.FN dirfile_madd_string
appeared in GetData-0.4.0.

The functions
.FN dirfile_madd_clincom ,
.FN dirfile_madd_cpolynom ,
.FN dirfile_madd_polynom ,
and
.FN dirfile_madd_sbit
appeared in GetData-0.6.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, the functions were renamed to
.FN gd_madd_bit ,
.FN gd_madd_clincom ,
.FN gd_madd_const ,
.FN gd_madd_cpolynom ,
.FN gd_madd_lincom ,
.FN gd_madd_linterp ,
.FN gd_madd_multiply ,
.FN gd_madd_phase ,
.FN gd_madd_polynom ,
.FN gd_madd_sbit ,
and
.FN gd_madd_string .
The functions
.FN gd_madd_carray ,
.FN gd_madd_crecip ,
.FN gd_madd_divide ,
and
.FN gd_madd_recip
also appeared in this version.

In GetData-0.8.0, these functions first allowed adding metafields by providing
the full (slashed) field name.  The functions
.FN gd_madd_mplex
and
.FN gd_madd_window
also appeared in this version.

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from these functions changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.  The functions
.FN gd_madd_indir ,
.FN gd_madd_sarray ,
and
.FN gd_madd_sindir
also appeared in this version.

.SH SEE ALSO
the corresponding
.BR gd_add_ <entry-type>
functions (e.g.
.F3 gd_add_bit ),
.F3 gd_entry ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_madd ,
.F3 gd_madd_spec ,
.F3 gd_metaflush ,
.F3 gd_open ,
dirfile-format(5)
