.\" gd_move.3.  The gd_move man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_move 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_move \(em move a Dirfile entry between format specification fragments

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_move(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char"
.BI * field_code ", int " new_fragment ", unsigned int " flags );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_move
function transfers the field or alias specified by
.IR field_code ,
which should not have a representation suffix, defined in the dirfile
specified by
.IR dirfile
from it's current format specification fragment to the fragment indexed by
.IR new_fragment .
If the field is already defined in the fragment index by
.IR new_fragment ,
this function does nothing and returns no error.

If the new fragment has different affixes, the field will be renamed as part of
the move.  See
.F3 gd_rename
for details on field renaming.  The field is closed before moving, resulting
in it's I/O pointer being reset to the beginning-of-field.

The
.I flags
parameter should be zero or more of the following flags, bitwise or'd together:
.DD GD_REN_DANGLE
By default, if the move results in a change of name for the field due to
differing fragment affixes,
.B ALIAS
entries pointing to this field will be updated with the field's new name.
Specifying this flag prohibits this behaviour, turning these aliases into
dangling aliases.  If moving the field doesn't rename it, this flag is ignored.
.DD GD_REN_DATA
If
.I field_code
specifies a
.B RAW
field, the binary file associated with the field will be translated to account
for the possibly different encoding, endianness, and frame offset of the
new format specification fragment.  It will also be moved to a new directory, if
necessary.

If this flag is not specified, no changes will be made to the binary file.  If
.I field_code
specifies a field of type other than
.BR RAW ,
this flag is ignored.

If the binary file is translated, and the frame offset of the destination
fragment is larger than that of the source fragment, this will result in
permanent deletion of data from the database.  If the new frame offset is
smaller than the old frame offset, the binary file will be padded at the front
with zeroes.
.DD GD_REN_FORCE
Skip updating entries which would be invalid (see
.F3 gd_rename
for details).  By default, an invalid field causes the move to fail.  If moving
the field doesn't rename it, this flag is ignored.
.DD GD_REN_UPDB
If moving the field renames it, update entries which use this field as an input
to account for the new name (see
.F3 gd_rename ).
If moving the field doesn't rename it, this flag is ignored.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.FN gd_move
returns zero.   On error, a negative-valued error code is returned.  Possible
error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ACCMODE
The specified dirfile was opened read-only.
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.I field_code
was not found, or else the move resulted in the field being renamed and
the resultant metadata update tried to change a field code into something
prohibited by a fragment's affixes.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_FIELD_TYPE
An attempt was made to move the immutable
.I INDEX
field.
.DD GD_E_BAD_INDEX
The
.I new_fragment
argument did not index a valid format specification fragment.
.DD GD_E_IO
An I/O error occurred while attempting to translate a binary file.
.DD GD_E_PROTECTED
The metadata of the source or destination format specification fragments was
protected from change, or the binary data of the source or destination fragments
was protected from change and binary file translation was requested.
.DD GD_E_UNKNOWN_ENCODING
The encoding scheme of the source or destination fragment is unknown.
.DD GD_E_UNSUPPORTED
The encoding scheme of the source or destination fragment does not support
binary file translation.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH NOTES
A binary file translation occurs out-of-place.  As a result, sufficient space
must be present on the filesystem for both the binary file before translation
and the binary file after translation.

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN dirfile_move
function appeared in GetData-0.5.0.  It had no
.ARG flags
parameter.  In place of
.ARG flags
was
.B int
.IR move_data .
Passing a non-zero value for this parameter had the same effect as the
.B GD_REN_DATA
flag does now.

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_move .

In all GetData-0.8.x releases, passing an alias name to this function would
move the target of the alias.  To move an alias itself, a separate function,
.FN gd_move_alias
was available.

In GetData-0.9.0,
.FN gd_move_alias
was removed.  Also in this release, the
.ARG move_data
parameter was repaced with the
.ARG flags
parameter.

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from this function changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_metaflush ,
.F3 gd_open ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
dirfile(5),
dirfile-format(5)
