.\" gd_native_type.3.  The gd_native_type man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, 2016 D.V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_native_type 3 "25 January 2017" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_native_type \(em returns the native data type of a field in a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "gd_type_t gd_native_type(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_code );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_native_type
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and determines the native type of data specified by
.ARG field_code ,
which may contain a representation suffix.

The 
.ARG dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.F3 gd_open .

The native data type of a field of a given entry type is calculated as:
.DD BIT INDEX
.BR GD_UINT64 ;
.DD CONST CARRAY
the data type of the field;
.DD DIVIDE MULTIPLY
if either input field is complex valued:
.BR GD_COMPLEX128 ,
otherwise:
.BR GD_FLOAT64 ;
.DD INDIR
the data type of the input
.BR CARRAY ;
.DD LINCOM POLYNOM
if any of the scalar parameters is complex valued, or if the native data type of
any of the input fields is complex valued:
.BR GD_COMPLEX128 ,
otherwise:
.BR GD_FLOAT64 ;
.DD LINTERP
if the look-up table is complex valued:
.BR GD_COMPLEX128 ,
otherwise:
.BR GD_FLOAT64 ;
.DD MPLEX WINDOW
the native data type of the data field;
.DD PHASE
the native data type of the input field;
.DD RAW
the data type of the raw data on disk;
.DD RECIP
if the dividend or the native data type of the input field is complex valued:
.BR GD_COMPLEX128 ,
otherwise:
.BR GD_FLOAT64 ;
.DD SARRAY SINDIR STRING
.BR GD_STRING ;
.DD SBIT
.BR GD_INT64 .
.PP
Furthermore, if the supplied
.ARG field_code
contains a representation suffix, and the native data type of the field is
complex valued, the native type returned will be the corresponding real valued
type.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_native_type
returns the native data type of the field code specified.  This will equal one
of the symbols:
.IP
.SC
.BR GD_UINT8 ", " GD_INT8 ", " GD_UINT16 ", " GD_INT16 ", " GD_UINT32 ,
.BR GD_INT32 ", " GD_FLOAT32 ", " GD_FLOAT64 ", " GD_COMPLEX64 ,
.BR GD_COMPLEX128 ", " GD_STRING .
.EC
.PP
The meanings of these symbols are explained in the
.F3 gd_getdata
manual page.

On error, this function returns
.B GD_UNKNOWN
and stores a negative-valued error code in the
.B DIRFILE
object which may be retrieved by a subsequent call to
.F3 gd_error .
Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.ARG field_code
or one of the fields it uses as input was not found in the database.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_DIMENSION
A scalar field was found where a vector field was expected.
.DD GD_E_IO
An error occurred while trying to read a LINTERP table from disk.
.DD GD_E_LUT
A LINTERP table was malformed.
.DD GD_E_RECURSE_LEVEL
Too many levels of recursion were encountered while trying to resolve
.ARG field_code .
This usually indicates a circular dependency in field specification in the
dirfile.
.PP
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN get_native_type
function appeared in GetData-0.6.0.  The return type for
.B STRING
fields was
.BR GD_NULL .

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_native_type .

Before GetData-0.10.0, the return type for
.B STRING
fields was
.BR GD_NULL .

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string
.F3 gd_getdata ,
.F3 gd_open ,
dirfile(5)
