.\" gd_nframes.3.  The gd_nframes man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2010, 2011, 2014, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_nframes 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_nframes \(em report the size of a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "off_t gd_nframes(DIRFILE *" dirfile );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_nframes
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and returns the number of frames in the database.  Since different fields may
have differing number of frames, the Dirfile Standards (see
dirfile(5))
dictate that the number of frames in the database is defined to be equal to the
number of frames in the reference field defined by the
.B /REFERENCE
directive (see
dirfile-format(5))
or, if no such reference field is defined, by the first raw field specified in
the format specification.

If no vector fields are defined in the database,
.FN gd_nframes
returns zero and succeeds.

The 
.ARG dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.F3 gd_open .

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_nframes
returns the number of frames in the dirfile, which is never negative.  On error,
it returns a negative-valued error code.  Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_IO
An I/O error occurred while determining the number of samples in the data file
associated with the reference field.
.DD GD_E_UNKNOWN_ENCODING
The number of samples available for the reference field could not be determined
because the encoding used to store the reference field's data file was not
understood.
.DD GD_E_UNSUPPORTED
GetData does not support determining the number of samples for the encoding of
of the data file associated with the reference field.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN get_nframes
function appeared in GetData-0.3.0.

In GeData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_nframes .

.SH SEE ALSO
dirfile(5),
dirfile-encoding(5),
.F3 gd_open ,
.F3 gd_bof ,
.F3 gd_eof ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string
