.\" gd_put_string.3.  The gd_put_string man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_put_string 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_put_string \(em write a STRING or SARRAY element to a Dirfile database

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_put_string(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_code ,
.BI "const char *" data_in );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_put_string
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and stores the character string
.ARG data_in
in the
.B STRING
or
.B SARRAY
scalar field, specified by
.ARG field_code .
If
.ARG field_code
specifies a
.B SARRAY
field, the supplied string is stored as the first element.

The 
.ARG dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.F3 gd_open .

Because string values are stored in the dirfile metadata, the new value of
.ARG field_code
won't be written to disk until the dirfile metadata is flushed with
.F3 gd_metaflush ,
or until the dirfile is closed with
.F3 gd_close .

The
.F3 gd_put_sarray
function provides another way of storing
.B STRING
and
.B SARRAY
data to a Dirfile.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.FN gd_put_string
returns zero.  On error, this a negative-valued error code.  Possible error
codes are:
.DD GD_E_ACCMODE
The specified
.ARG dirfile
was opened read-only.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.ARG field_code
was not found in the database.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
An invalid
.ARG dirfile
was supplied.
.DD GD_E_BAD_FIELD_TYPE
The supplied
.ARG field_code
referred to a field of type other than
.BR SARRAY
or
.BR STRING .
.DD GD_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal error occurred in the library while trying to perform the task.
This indicates a bug in the library.  Please report the incident to the
maintainer.
.DD GD_E_PROTECTED
The fragment containing the string was protected from change.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN put_string
function apepared in GetData-0.4.0.  It returned a
.B size_t
cotnaining length of the string written, or zero on error.

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_put_strint .

In GetData-0.10.0, this function's return value changed to zero on success, or
or else a negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
dirfile(5),
.F3 gd_close ,
.F3 gd_get_string ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_metaflush ,
.F3 gd_open ,
.F3 gd_put_sarray .
