.\" gd_parser_callback.3.  The gd_parser_callback man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2016 D.V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_parser_callback 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_parser_callback \(em set the syntax error callback handler for a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "void gd_parser_callback(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", gd_parser_callback_t"
.IB sehandler ", void *" extra );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_parser_callback
function updates the syntax error callback function of the DIRFILE object
.ARG dirfile
to be
.ARG sehandler ,
and the caller supplied extra pointer passed to the handler to be
.ARG extra ,
discarding any syntax error handler and extra pointer which were previously
registered for this DIRFILE.  If
.ARG sehandler
is NULL, the existing handler will be removed and the default behaviour (abort
on error) restored.  See
.F3 gd_cbopen
for a discussion on the requirements for the syntax handler.

Since parsing of an existing format specification occurs when the DIRFILE object
is created, before this function can be called, this function is only useful to
set or modify a callback function or its caller data before calling
.F3 gd_include ,
which will invoke the callback function if syntax errors are found in the
included fragment.

This function always succeeds, and has no return value.

.SH HISTORY

The
.FN dirfile_parser_callback
function appeared in GetData-0.5.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_parser_callback .

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_cbopen ,
.F3 gd_include ,
dirfile(5)
