.\" gd_spf.3.  The gd_spf man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_spf 3 "24 July 2010" "Version 0.7.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
gd_spf \(em returns the samples per frame for a field in a
dirfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "gd_spf_t gd_spf(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_code );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR gd_spf ()
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I dirfile
and returns the number of samples per frame for the field
.IR field_code .
If
.I field_code
contains a valid representation suffix, it will be ignored.  The
.IR gd_spf_t
type is an unsigned 16-bit integer type.

The 
.I dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.BR gd_open (3).

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR gd_spf ()
returns the number of samples per frame for the field specified.  On error, it
returns zero and sets the dirfile error
to a non-zero error value.  Possible error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.I field_code
was not found in the database.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_REPR
The representation suffix specified in
.I field_code
was not recognised.
.TP
.B GD_E_DIMENSION
A scalar field was found where a vector field was expected.
.TP
.B GD_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal error occurred in the library while trying to perform the task.
This indicates a bug in the library.  Please report the incident to the
maintainer.
.TP
.B GD_E_RECURSE_LEVEL
Too many levels of recursion were encountered while trying to resolve
.IR field_code .
This usually indicates a circular dependency in field specification in the
dirfile.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR gd_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR gd_error_string (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR gd_open (3),
.BR gd_error (3),
.BR gd_error_string (3)
