.\" gd_uninclude.3.  The gd_uninclude man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2010, 2014, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_uninclude 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_uninclude \(em remove a format specification fragment from a Dirfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_uninclude(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", int " fragment_index ,
.BI "int " del );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_uninclude
removes the format specification fragment indexed by
.ARG fragment_index
from the specified dirfile, as well as any fragments the indicated fragment
INCLUDEs.  Fields defined in the removed fragments will be removed from the
dirfile.

Before removing the specified fragment, all pending writes are flushed to
.B RAW
fields defined the the removed fragments.  If
.ARG del
is zero, metadata changes will also be written to the removed fragments.  If
.ARG del
is non-zero, the format specification fragments will be deleted from disk, if
possible.  Regardless of the value of
.ARG del ,
binary data files associated with
.B RAW
fields defined in the removed fragments will not be deleted.  To delete these
binary files, use
.F3 gd_delete
before calling this function.

The primary format specification (the fragment indexed by zero) cannot be
removed from the dirfile.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.FN gd_uninclude
returns zero.  On error, a negative-valued error code is returned.  Possible
error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ACCMODE
The supplied dirfile was opened in read-only mode.
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_INDEX
The supplied fragment index was out of range, or an attempt was made to remove
the primary format specification.
.DD GD_E_IO
An I/O error occurred while trying to write modified data or metadata to disk.
.DD GD_E_PROTECTED
The metadata of the fragment which included the removed fragment was protected
from change.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH NOTES
This function re-arranges the remaining format specification fragments in some
unspecified way, except for the primary fragment, which is guaranteed to remain
at index zero.  Callers which cache format specification fragment indices must
re-initialise their cache after calling this function.

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN dirfile_uninclude
function appeared in GetData-0.5.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_uninclude .

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from this function changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_delete ,
.F3 gd_include ,
.F3 gd_open ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_fragmentname ,
.F3 gd_nfragments ,
.F3 gd_reference ,
dirfile(5), dirfile-encoding(5), dirfile-format(5)
