.\" gd_verbose_prefix.3.  The gd_verbose_prefix man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_verbose_prefix 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_verbose_prefix \(em set the prefix on error messages printed by GetData

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_verbose_prefix(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" prefix );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_verbose_prefix
sets the prefix printed before error messages output by the GetData library
for the dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile .
If
.ARG prefix
is NULL, the current prefix (if any) is deleted and no new prefix is saved.

GetData only prints error messages for a given Dirfile if opened along with the
.B GD_VERBOSE
flag, or if the flag has been subsequently set on the dirfile using
.F3 gd_flags .
If this flag is not set, this function still updates the prefix, but GetData
does not use it.
.PP
If
.B GD_VERBOSE
is set, when the library encounters an error, it prints the supplied prefix (if
any), followed immediately by the error message (which is the message returned
by
.F3 gd_error_string ),
followed by a newline.  All output goes to the caller's standard error
.RB ( stderr (3)).

The 
.ARG dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.F3 gd_open .

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_verbose_prefix
returns zero.  On error, it returns a negative-valued error code.  Possible
error codes are:
.DD GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.PP
The error code is also stored in the
.B DIRFILE
object and may be retrieved after this function returns by calling
.F3 gd_error .
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN gd_verbose_prefix
function appared in GetData-0.8.0.

In GetData-0.10.0, the error return from this function changed from -1 to a
negative-valued error code.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_flags ,
.F3 gd_open ,
.F3 stderr ,
dirfile(5)
