.\" get_entry_type.3.  The get_entry_type man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH get_entry_type 3 "20 December 2008" "Version 0.5.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
get_entry_type \(em retrieve the type of a dirfile field
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "gd_entype_t get_entry_type(const DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char"
.BI * field_code );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR get_entry_type ()
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I dirfile
and returns the field type of the field specified by
.IR field_code .

The
.B gd_entype_t
type is an enumerated type which may take any of the following values:
.IP
.nh
.ad l
.BR GD_BIT_ENTRY ,\~ GD_CONST_ENTRY ,\~ GD_INDEX_ENTRY ,\~
.BR GD_LINCOM_ENTRY ,\~ GD_LINTERP_ENTRY ,\~ GD_MULTIPLY_ENTRY ,\~
.BR GD_PHASE_ENTRY ,\~ GD_RAW_ENTRY ,\~ GD_STRING_ENTRY .
.ad n
.hy
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR get_entry_type ()
returns the field type of the specified field.  On error,
.BR get_entry_type ()
returns
.B GD_NO_ENTRY
and sets the dirfile error a non-zero error value.  Possible error
values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.I field_code
was not found in the database.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR get_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR get_error_string (3).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile_open (3),
.BR get_entry (3),
.BR get_error (3),
.BR get_error_string (3),
.BR get_fragmentname (3),
.BR get_parent_fragment (3),
.BR dirfile (5)
