.\" get_encoding.3.  The get_encoding man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GetData is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with GetData; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH get_encoding 3 "9 December 2008" "Version 0.5.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
get_encoding \(em report the binary encoding of data in a dirfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "unsigned long get_encoding(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", int " fragment_index );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR get_encoding ()
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I dirfile
and returns the binary encoding for the fragment indexed by
.IR fragment_index .
The binary encoding of a fragment indicate the encoding of data stored in binary
files associated with
.B RAW
fields defined in the specified fragment.  The encoding of a fragment
containing no
.B RAW
fields is ignored.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR get_encoding ()
returns the binary encoding of the specified fragment, which will one of the
following symbols:
.IP
.nh
.ad l
.BR GD_UNENCODED ,\~ GD_TEXT_ENCODED ,\~ GD_SLIM_ENCODED ,\~
.BR GD_GZIP_ENCODED ,\~ GD_BZIP2_ENCODED ,\~ GD_ENC_UNSUPPORTED .
.ad n
.hy
.P
See
.BR dirfile_cbopen (3)
and dirfile-encoding(5) for the meanings of these symbols and details on the
supported encoding schemes.  If the encoding scheme specified in the dirfile
metadata is unknown to GetData,
.B GD_ENC_UNSUPPORTED
will be returned.
.P
On error, it returns zero and sets the dirfile error to a non-zero error value. 
Possible error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_INDEX
The supplied index was out of range.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR get_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR get_error_string (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile_alter_encoding (3),
.BR dirfile_open (3),
.BR getdata (3),
.BR get_error (3),
.BR get_error_string (3),
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR dirfile-format (5)
