.\" get_samples_per_frame.3.  The get_samples_per_frame man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU C Library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with the GNU C Library; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
.\" 02111-1307 USA.
.\"
.TH get_samples_per_frame 3 "11 August 2008" "Version 0.3.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
get_samples_per_frame \(em returns the samples per frame for a field in a
dirfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "unsigned int get_samples_per_frame(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_code );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR get_samples_per_frame ()
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I dirfile
and returns the number of samples per frame for the field
.IR field_code .

The 
.I dirfile
parameter must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.BR dirfile_open (3).

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR get_samples_per_frame ()
returns the number of samples per frame for the field specified.  On error, it
returns zero and sets
.IR dirfile -> error
to a non-zero error value.  Possible error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.I field_code
was not found in the database.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.TP
.B GD_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal error occurred in the library while trying to perform the task.
This indicates a bug in the library.  Please report the incident to the
maintainer.
.TP
.B GD_E_RECURSE_LEVEL
Too many levels of recursion were encountered while trying to resolve
.IR field_code .
This usually indicates a circular dependency in field specification in the
dirfile.
.P
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR getdata_error_string (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR dirfile_open (3),
.BR getdata (3),
.BR getdata_error_string (3)
