.\" get_string.3.  The get_string man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GetData is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with GetData; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH get_string 3 "6 October 2008" "Version 0.4.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
get_string \(em retrieve a scalar constant from a dirfile database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <get_string.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "ssize_t get_string(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_code ,
.BI "size_t " len ", char *" data_out );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR get_string ()
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I dirfile
for the string scalar
.IR field_code .
The first
.I len
characters of the string scalar are stored in the user-supplied buffer
.IR data_out .

The 
.I dirfile
parameter must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.BR dirfile_open (3).

If
.I len
equals zero, or if
.I data_out
equals NULL, no data will be copied to
.IR data_out ,
but the length of the string scalar will still be returned by
.BR get_string ().
Otherwise, the parameter
.I data_out
must point to a valid memory location of sufficient size to hold at least
.I len
characters.  If the length of the string scalar is greater than
.IR len ", " data_out
will not be null-terminated.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR get_string ()
returns the actual length of the specified string scalar.  A return return
value greater than or equal to
.I len
indicates that the output string is not null terminated.

On error, it returns -1 and sets the dirfile error to a non-zero
value.  Possible error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.I field_code
was not found in the database.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
An invalid
.I dirfile
was supplied.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_FIELD_TYPE
The supplied
.I field_code
referred to a 
.B CONST
or 
.B STRING
field.  The caller should use
.BR get_string (3),
or
.BR get_string (3)
instead.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_TYPE
An invalid
.I return_type
was specified.
.TP
.B GD_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal error occurred in the library while trying to perform the task.
This indicates a bug in the library.  Please report the incident to the
maintainer.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR get_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered may be obtained from
a call to
.BR get_error_string (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR dirfile-encoding (5),
.BR dirfile_open (3),
.BR getdata (3),
.BR get_error (3),
.BR get_error_string (3),
.BR get_nframes (3),
.BR get_spf (3),
.BR get_string (3),
.BR putdata (3)
