.\" get_raw_filename.3.  The get_raw_filename man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GetData is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with GetData; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH get_raw_filename 3 "14 December 2008" "Version 0.5.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
get_raw_filename \(em retrieve the pathname of a binary file in a dirfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "const char *get_raw_filename(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char"
.BI * field_code );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR get_raw_filename ()
function retrieves the pathname of the file backing the
.B RAW
field specified by
.I field_code
in the dirfile specified by
.IR dirfile .

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR get_raw_filename ()
returns the full pathname of the binary file associated with the specified
field.  On error, NULL is returned and the dirfile error is set to a non-zero
error value.  Possible error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.I field_code
was not found.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_FIELD_TYPE
The field specified by
.I field_code
was not a
.B RAW
field.
.TP
.B GD_E_UNKNOWN_ENCODING
The encoding scheme of the specified field could not be determined or was not
understood by GetData.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR get_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR get_error_string (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR get_entry (3),
.BR get_error (3),
.BR get_error_string (3),
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR dirfile-encoding (5),
.BR dirfile-format (5)
