.\" get_error_string.3.  The get_error_string man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GetData is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with GetData; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH get_error_string 3 "7 October 2008" "Version 0.4.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
get_error_string \(em report a getdata library error
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "char *get_error_string(const DIRFILE *" dirfile ", char *" buffer ", size_t
.IB buflen );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR get_error_string ()
function returns a string describing the last dirfile error encountered while
operating on 
.IR dirfile .
The string is written to the user-supplied buffer
.IR buffer .
At most
.I buflen
characters will be written, including a terminating null.
The numeric dirfile error itself may be obtained by calling
.BR get_error (3).

The 
.I dirfile
parameter should point to a DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.BR dirfile_open (3).

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR get_error_string ()
function returns 
.IR buffer ,
or NULL if buflen is less than one.  The error state of
.I dirfile
is unchanged.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile_open (3),
.BR get_error (3).
