.\" get_nmfields_by_type.3.  The get_nmfields_by_type man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH get_nmfields_by_type 3 "8 December 2008" "Version 0.5.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
get_nmfields_by_type \(em report the number of fields of a given type in a dirfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "unsigned int get_nmfields_by_type(DIRFILE *" dirfile ,
.BI "const char *" parent ", gd_entype_t " type );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR get_nmfields_by_type ()
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I dirfile
and returns the number of metafields defined in the database for the supplied
parent field.

The 
.I dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.BR dirfile_open (3).
The
.I type
argument should be one of the following symbols indicating the type of field to
count:
.IP
.nh
.ad l
.BR GD_LINCOM_ENTRY ,\~ GD_LINTERP_ENTRY ,\~ GD_BIT_ENTRY ,\~
.BR GD_MULTIPLY_ENTRY ,\~ GD_PHASE_ENTRY ,\~ GD_CONST_ENTRY ,\~
.BR GD_STRING_ENTRY ,\~ GD_INDEX_ENTRY
.ad n
.hy

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR get_nmfields_by_type ()
returns the number of defined metafields for the given parent.  On error, it
returns zero and sets the dirfile error
to a non-zero error value.  Possible error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_BAD_CODE
The supplied parent field code was not found, or referred to a metafield itself.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR get_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR get_error_string (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR dirfile_open (3),
.BR get_error (3),
.BR get_error_string (3),
.BR get_mfield_list_by_type (3),
.BR get_nmfields (3),
.BR get_nfields_by_type (3)
