.\" get_strings.3.  The get_strings man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GetData is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with GetData; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH get_strings 3 "17 October 2008" "Version 0.4.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
get_strings \(em retrieve a list of string values from a dirfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "const char **get_strings(DIRFILE *" dirfile );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR get_strings ()
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I dirfile
and returns a read-only list of values of the all
.B STRING
type fields defined in the database.  Notably, this list does not include
/META subfields.

The 
.I dirfile
parameter must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.BR dirfile_open (3).

The array returned will be de-allocated by a call to
.BR dirfile_close (3)
and should not be de-allocated by the caller.  The list returned should not be
assumed to be in any particular order, although it is guaranteed to be in the
same order as the list of
.B STRING
fields returned by
.BR get_field_list_by_type (3).
The array is terminated by a NULL pointer.  The number of strings in the array
can be obtained from a call to
.BR get_nfields_by_type (3).

The caller may not modify any strings in the array, or the array itself.  Doing
so may cause database corruption.  The pointer returned is guaranteed to be
valid until
.BR get_strings ()
is called again with the same arguments, or until the array is deallocated by
a call to
.BR dirfile_close (3).

A corresponding list of names for these fields may be obtained by
calling
.BR get_field_list_by_type (3).

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR get_strings ()
returns a pointer to an array of strings containing the values of all the
.B STRING
fields defined in the dirfile database.  If no strings are defined in the
database, NULL is returned.  On error it returns NULL and sets the dirfile error
to a non-zero error value.  Possible error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR get_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR get_error_string (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR dirfile_open (3),
.BR get_error (3),
.BR get_error_string (3),
.BR get_field_list_by_type (3),
.BR get_mstrings (3),
.BR get_nfields_by_type (3)
