.\" get_nvectors.3.  The get_nvectors man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008, 2009 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH get_nvectors 3 "16 October 2009" "Version 0.6.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
get_nvectors \(em report the number of vector fields in a dirfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "unsigned int get_nvectors(DIRFILE *" dirfile );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR get_nvectors ()
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I dirfile
and returns the number of vector fields defined in the database
.RI ( i.e.
fields of types
.BR BIT ,\~ LINCOM ,\~ LINTERP ,\~ MULTIPLY ,\~ PHASE ,\~ POLYNOM ,\~ RAW ,
.BR SBIT ).
Notably, this count
does not include /META fields.

The 
.I dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.BR dirfile_open (3).

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR get_nvectors ()
returns the number of vector fields in the dirfile.  On error, it
returns zero and sets the dirfile error
to a non-zero error value.  Possible error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR get_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR get_error_string (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR dirfile_open (3),
.BR getdata (3),
.BR get_error (3),
.BR get_error_string (3),
.BR get_nfields (3),
.BR get_nmvectors (3),
.BR get_vector_list (3)
