.\" getdata64.3.  The getdata64 man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU C Library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with the GNU C Library; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
.\" 02111-1307 USA.
.\"
.TH getdata64 3 "16 August 2008" "Version 0.3.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
getdata64 \(em retreive data from a dirfile database with largefile support
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #define _LARGEFILE64_SOURCE

.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "size_t getdata64(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_code ", off64_t"
.IB first_frame ", off64_t " first_sample ", size_t " num_frames ", size_t"
.IB num_samples ", gd_type_t " return_type ", void *" data_out );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
This version of
.BR getdata (3)
uses a 64-bit offset type, even if
.I off_t
is a 32-bit type.  It is only available if one defines
.IR _LARGEFILE64_SOURCE .
If
.I off_t
is a 64-bit type (ie. if
.I _FILE_OFFSET_BITS
is defined to be 64), this function will be called
.BR getdata ().
Otherwise,
.BR getdata ()
will be a version of this file which uses a 32-bit
.IR off_t .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getdata (3),
.BR feature_test_macros (7)
