.\" put_string.3.  The put_string man page.
.\"
.\" (C) 2008 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" GetData is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with GetData; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH put_string 3 "17 October 2008" "Version 0.4.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
put_string \(em retrieve a scalar constant from a dirfile database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "int put_string(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" field_code ,
.BI "const char *" data_in );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR put_string ()
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I dirfile
and sets the
.B STRING
.I field_code 
to the value specified in
.IR data_in .

The 
.I dirfile
parameter must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.BR dirfile_open (3).

Because string values are stored in the dirfile metadata, the new value of
.I field_code
won't be written to disk until the dirfile metadata is flushed with
.BR dirfile_metaflush (3),
or until the dirfile is closed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR put_string ()
returns the length of the string stored, including the trailing NULL character.
On error, it returns 0 and sets the dirfile error to a non-zero value.  Possible
error values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.I field_code
was not found in the database.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
An invalid
.I dirfile
was supplied.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_FIELD_TYPE
The supplied
.I field_code
referred to a field of type other than
.BR STRING .
The caller should use
.BR putdata (3),
or
.BR put_constant (3)
instead.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_TYPE
An invalid
.I data_type
was specified.
.TP
.B GD_E_INTERNAL_ERROR
An internal error occurred in the library while trying to perform the task.
This indicates a bug in the library.  Please report the incident to the
maintainer.
.P
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR get_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered may be obtained from
a call to
.BR get_error_string (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR dirfile_metaflush (3),
.BR dirfile_open (3),
.BR getdata (3),
.BR get_string (3),
.BR get_error (3),
.BR get_error_string (3),
.BR putdata (3)
