.\" dirfile2ascii.1.  The dirfile2ascii man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2010, 2012 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH dirfile2ascii 1 "21 February 2012" "Version 0.8.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
dirfile2ascii \(em output dirfile database vectors as ASCII text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nh
.ad l
.HP
\fBdirfile2ascii\fR [ \fIOPTION\fR ]... \fIDIRFILE\fR
.RB "[ [ " \-a " | " \-A " | " \-e " | " \-E " | " \-F " | " \-g " | " \-G " |"
.BR \-o " | " \-i " | " \-u " | " \-x " | " \-X " ]"
.IR FIELD " ]..."
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
Fetches data from a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I DIRFILE
and writes it as ASCII to standard output.  Any number of vector
.IR FIELD s
may be specified.  Each specified field is printed in a separate column.

Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delimeter =\fIdelim\fR
separate columns by
.IR delim .
(Default: a single space.)
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-first\-frame =\fIfirst_frame\fB\-\fIlast_frame\fR
read from frame
.I first_frame
to frame
.I last_frame
(inclusive).
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-first\-frame =\fIfirst_frame\fB:\fInframes\fR
equivalent to \fB\-\-first\-frame\fR=\fIfirst_frame\fR
\fB\-\-num-frames\fR=\fInframes\fR.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-first\-frame =\fIfirst_frame\fR
If \fIfirst_frame\fR\~>=\~0, start reading at frame
.IR first_frame .
If 
.I first_frame
is -1 and \fB\-\-num-frames\fR=\fInframes\fR is specified, read the last
.I nframes
frames.  If
.B \-\-first-frame
is not specified, reading starts at frame zero.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-num\-frames =\fInframes\fR
read at most
.I nframes
frames.  If not specified, or if \fBnframes\fR\~=\~0, all frames to the
end-of-field are read.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-precision =\fIformat\fR
use
.I format
to format output.
.I format
may contain any of the flag characters, a field width, and/or a precision as
specified in
.BR printf (3).
It may \fInot\fR contain a length modifier.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
don't write diagnostic messages on standard error.  (This is the default
behaviour).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-skip =\fIframe_skip\fR
if \fIframe_skip\fR\~>\~0, output only one sample for every
.I frame_skip
frames.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
write diagnostic messages on standard error.
.TP
.BR \-z ", " \-\-fill =\fISTRING\fR
Fill columns which go past the end of their corresponding field with the string
.IR STRING .
The default behaviour is to fill columns with floating-point conversions with
.B NaN
and columns with integer conversion with
.BR 0 ,
which mirrors what occurs when an attempt is made to print data from before the
start of a field.  (Note: the default behaviour cannot be reproduced with this
option, since
.I STRING
is applied to all columns, regardless of conversion type.)
.P
In addition to the above, each
.I FIELD
argument may be preceded by a short option, one of:
.BR \-a ", " \-A ", " \-e ", " \-E ", " \-F ", " \-g ", " \-G ", " \-i ,
.BR \-o ", " \-u ", " \-x ", " \-X ,
indicating the conversion to be used.  See
.BR printf (3)
for the meaning of these conversion specifiers.  The output flags, width, and
precision may be specified by using
.BR \-\-precision .
If no conversion specifier is given,
.B %f
is used.

For conversion specifiers
.BR %a ", " %A ", " %e ", " %E ", " %f ", " %F ", " %g ", " %G ,
data is read from the dirfile as double precision floats.  For conversion
specifier \fB%i\fR, data is read as 64-bit signed integers.  For conversion
specifiers
.BR %o ", " %u ", " %x ", " %X ,
data is read as 64-bit unsigned integers.

.SH LIMITATIONS
No native support for printing complex data is provided.  This may be worked
around by using dirfile(5) representation suffixes.  For example, the command
.IP
.B dirfile2ascii
.I DIRFILE
.IB FIELD .r
.IB FIELD .i
.P
will print the real and imaginary parts of the complex valued field
.I FIELD
in the first and second columns, respectively.

.SH AUTHOR

dirfile2ascii was written by Matthew Truch and D. V. Wiebe.

.SH REPORTING BUGS

Please send reports of bugs to getdata\-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

The GetData home page: <http://getdata.sourceforge.net/>

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright \(co 2010 Matthew Truch.

dirfile2ascii is licenced under the GNU LPGL version 2.1 or later.

This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR defile (1),
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR printf (3)
