.\" gd_fragment_index.3.  The gd_fragment_index man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_fragment_index 3 "1 January 2012" "Version 0.8.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
gd_fragment_index \(em retrieve the fragment containing a dirfile field
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "int gd_fragment_index(const DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char"
.BI * entry_name );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR gd_fragment_index ()
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.I dirfile
and returns the index number of the fragment defining the field or alias
specified by
.IR entry_name ,
which may not contain a representation suffix.

This is one of the few GetData functions which does not resolve aliases:
supplying the name of an alias as
.I entry_name
will return the index of the fragment containing the alias itself and not that
of its target.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR gd_fragment_index ()
returns the requested fragment index.  On error,
.BR gd_fragment_index ()
returns -1 and sets the dirfile error a non-zero error value.  Possible error
values are:
.TP 8
.B GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_CODE
The entry specified by
.I entry_name
was not found in the database.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.PP
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR gd_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR gd_error_string (3).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gd_open (3),
.BR gd_entry (3),
.BR gd_error (3),
.BR gd_error_string (3),
.BR gd_fragmentname (3),
.BR gd_parent_fragment (3),
.BR dirfile (5)
