.\" gd_verbose_prefix.3.  The gd_verbose_prefix man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_verbose_prefix 3 "1 April 2012" "Version 0.8.0" "GETDATA"
.SH NAME
gd_verbose_prefix \(em set the prefix on error messages printed by GetData
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.nh
.ad l
.BI "int gd_verbose_prefix(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char *" prefix );
.hy
.ad n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR gd_verbose_prefix ()
sets the prefix printed before error messages output by the GetData library
for the dirfile(5) database specified by
.IR dirfile .
If
.I prefix
is NULL, the current prefix (if any) is deleted and no new prefix is saved.

GetData only prints error messages for a given Dirfile if opened along with the
.B GD_VERBOSE
flag, or if the flag has been subsequently set on the dirfile using
.BR gd_flags (3).
If this flag is not set, this function still updates the prefix, but GetData
does not use it.
.PP
If
.B GD_VERBOSE
is set, when the library encounters an error, it prints the supplied prefix (if
any), followed immediately by the error message (which is the message returned
by
.BR gd_error_string (3)),
followed by a newline.  All output goes to the standard error I/O stream
.RB ( stderr (3))
of the caller.

The 
.I dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.BR gd_open (3).

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.BR gd_verbose_prefix ()
returns the zero.  On error, it returns -1 and sets the dirfile error
to a non-zero error value.  Possible error values are:
.TP
.B GD_E_ALLOC
The library was unable to allocate memory.
.TP
.B GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.PP
The dirfile error may be retrieved by calling
.BR gd_error (3).
A descriptive error string for the last error encountered can be obtained from
a call to
.BR gd_error_string (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dirfile (5),
.BR gd_flags (3),
.BR gd_open (3),
.BR gd_error (3),
.BR gd_error_string (3),
.BR stderr (3).
